Docs | AI Chessathon
Skip to content
AI ChessathonDocsLeaderboardDaily FiveRulesDocsLeaderboardDaily FiveRulesSign inSign inRegister
Participants
Build against this.
QuickstartAgent APIWire protocolMatch environmentClocks and scoringSubmissionsFailure referenceQuickstart
Fork the starter repo for a working agent, baselines to beat, and a harness that plays games locally under the real clock. Or start from scratch, below.
A submission is a zip of 50 MB unzipped at most. These sit at its root, not inside a folder.
agent.zip
├── agent.py            required
└── model files         weights, books, anything elseThe smallest legal agent looks like this.
import chess
import random
def get_move(fen: str, time_left_ms: int) -> str:
board = chess.Board(fen)
return random.choice(list(board.legal_moves)).uci()The environment is fixed. The container ships Python 3.12, the full standard library, and five preinstalled packages at fixed versions.
torch 2.13.0+cpu     numpy 2.5.2      python-chess 1.11.2
onnxruntime 1.29.0   numba 0.67.0Nothing installs at validation and a requirements.txt in your zip is ignored, so importing anything outside that set crashes your agent in its smoke games. Ask at hello@aichessathon.com for a package the stack lacks and any addition is announced to every team.
Native binaries inside the zip are rejected. What you ship has to be source a judge can read, so a flagged game can be cleared by reading your agent instead of by statistics alone. File modes inside the zip are ignored and every file is readable. Compiled speed comes from numba, which JIT compiles your Python in process, and each jitted function pays that compile cost the first time it runs. Cython does not work here, because a compiled extension is a native binary and native binaries are rejected, and the image carries no compiler to build one at runtime. Your zip goes first on sys.path, so a file named after a module you import, chess.py or types.py, shadows the real one.
Agent API
agent.py exposes one function.
def get_move(fen: str, time_left_ms: int) -> strNameTypeMeaning
fenstrthe position to move in, standard FEN
time_left_msintyour remaining clock in milliseconds
returnsstra legal move in UCI, e.g. e2e4 or e7e8q
One process serves one game, started fresh for every game. Load your model at import. The 90s init budget covers importing your agent and runs before the clock starts, so work you defer to your first get_move comes out of your match clock. The process stays alive between moves, so state you keep in memory carries across your own moves. Your process is suspended while your opponent moves, so work you leave running between your own moves does not run. During your own move one thread is fastest, since threads past the first share the single core and cost you time. The referee claims threefold and fifty-move draws automatically, so an agent that wants to avoid a repetition tracks the positions it has been asked about.
Wire protocol
The runner talks to your process over stdin and stdout, one JSON object per line. You only implement get_move. The provided runner handles the wire. Each request looks like this.
{"fen": "rnbqkbnr/...", "time_left_ms": 87500}Each response looks like this.
{"move": "e2e4"}your colourthe side to move in the fen
time_left_msyour clock before this move. The increment lands after you move
malformed outputcounts as an illegal move, which loses the game
Your own output cannot corrupt this. The runner moves the protocol onto a private handle and points file descriptor 1 at stderr before importing your agent, so print is safe. Everything you write to stdout or stderr is kept, up to 8 KB as the first 4 KB and the last 4 KB. It appears in your validation log, and after every rated game in a log your dashboard offers alongside the PGN. That log also carries your init time, your time on every move, and the clock you had left. Only your own team can read it.
Match environment
CPUone core of an AMD EPYC 9V74 at 2.60 GHz, yours alone while you think
Memory2 GB
Networknone, in either direction
GPUnone
Filesystemread-only, plus 256 MB scratch at /tmp, where HOME and the cache paths already point. It starts empty for every game and is deleted with it, so it is scratch space, not a cache between games
Processes128. On one core, threads past the first cost you time
Hardwareidentical for every game, both agents on one machine
No network means no hosted inference and no engine APIs, by construction. Everything your agent needs ships inside the zip.
Clocks and scoring
Time control120s per side, plus 0.5s per move
Init budget90s before the clock starts
Game endFIDE rules. 300 plies without a result is adjudicated on material, else drawn
Ladderrated rounds every hour, 08:00 to 22:00, ranked by a Glicko-2 rating shown as a single Elo-style number. The ladder only seeds the final Swiss
Openingsevery game starts from a curated position that is close to level. Knockout ties play each position once with each colour
Qualificationa 13-round Swiss over the locked builds decides the order the 50 London seats fill, by points. An odd field gives one team a 1-point bye. Seats go one per UK member and at most two per team
Prizes£1,000 winner, £500 runner-up, £250 third at the London final. Third is the losing semi-finalist with the better final Swiss standing. Awarded to the team, split as the team decides
Tie-breakspoints, Buchholz, head-to-head, earlier final submission
Daily Five6 to 10 September. One attempt a day, five positions, 20 minutes. One wrong move ends a position. Your five are drawn for you. Start by 23:40 London. Anyone signed in may play
Daily Five rankingpositions solved, then the time of your last solve, then who finished first. Giving up costs no time. A position withdrawn as broken counts as solved and adds no time
Daily Five wildcardsthe top 3 eligible participants each day earn a Finals Day Wildcard, a seat at the London final and not a place in the bracket. One per person across the five days, so places roll down. Eligible means a UK university student who is not an organiser and not on a disqualified team
Daily Five fair playno engines, no other people, no other accounts, no looking positions up. Every move is timed. Invitations follow review and may include solving a position in person at the final
Teams1 to 3 people, one team per person. Creating, joining and leaving a team close 11 September 11:00
Eligibilitythe ladder is open worldwide. A team enters the final Swiss if at least one member is a UK university student, and only its UK members can take a London seat, verified before invites
House botsplay the ladder and show their public CCRL Blitz ratings. They cannot qualify
Submissions
Size50 MB unzipped
Rate10 uploads per team per day
Which playsyour latest submission that passed validation
Validationbuild, then two smoke games at the match clock, one as each colour. The verbatim log appears on your dashboard
Uploads close11 September 11:00
Third party engines are prohibited. That covers Stockfish, Lc0, Maia, any wrapper around one and any port or translation of one. Your moves come from code you wrote. Use any AI support you like to write it, as long as the submission keeps to these rules and you can explain it when asked. An engine you wrote yourself before the event is your own code. A model is not required, a classical search is a full entry. Any network you ship is one you trained yourself, and training it on positions an existing engine labelled is allowed. Starting from a published chess network is not, so fine-tuning or re-exporting one counts as shipping it. What ships inside the zip is what the ban covers, and a database of engine moves or evaluations shipped for lookup at runtime is an engine, not training data.
What you ship has to be source a judge can read, so a flagged game can be cleared by reading your agent instead of by statistics alone. Model weights are not binaries, so .onnx, .safetensors and .pt are fine. Opening books and endgame tablebases are permitted as shipped data, and chess.polyglot and chess.syzygy are in the base image. Every submission faces automated and human checks. Each finalist team walks through how its agent was built, and a team that ships a network shows how it was trained. Disqualification can be retroactive, and obfuscated agents are disqualified.
Failure reference
TerminationCauseResult
illegalillegal or malformed moveloss
crashyour process exited, threw, or ran out of memoryloss
flagclock ran out mid-gameloss
initno ready line within the 90s init budgetloss
adjudication300 plies without a resultmaterial decides, else draw
voidboth sides failedno result recorded
AI ChessathonSponsored by
EventFormatTeamRegisterArchive
LegalCompetition rulesPrivacy notice
ContactEmail us